- Definitions
	- The `vertex space` $C_0(G)$ of a graph $G$ is the complex vector space of all functions from $V(G)$ into $\mathbb{C}$
	  $$C_0(G) \stackrel{def}{=} \{ f:V(G)\to \mathbb{C} \}$$
	- The `edge space` $C_1(G)$ of a graph $G$ is the complex vector space of all linear functions from $E(G)$ into $\mathbb{C}$
	- `Formal sum`
	  collapsed:: true
		- ((63ce22e4-db7e-4f36-b562-87ee80f539b7))
		- The sum $\sum_{i=1}^n x_iv_i$ is a formal sum of the vertices.
		- And $(v_1, ..., v_n)$ is the `standard basis` of the vertex space.
		- $v_i$ could also be seen as a function $V(G)\to \mathbb{C}$ that is $0$ everywhere except at the vertex $v_i$ it is $1$.
		- Same notations applies to $C_1(G)$ and $(e_1, ..., e_m)$.
	- We endow these spaces with inner product in which the standard bases are orthonormal, i.e. $\langle\vec{x}, \vec{y}\rangle=\sum_i x_i\bar{y_i}$
	  collapsed:: true
		- which is standard inner product of complex space, where $\langle \vec{x}, \vec{x}\rangle \geq 0$ for any vector $\vec{x}$.
	- `Cycle space`
	  collapsed:: true
		- Let $L = u_1u_2\cdots u_l$ be a cycle in $G$. Say $e_i = u_ju_{j+1}$ is *oriented as* $L$ if $e_i$ is oriented from $u_j$ to $u_{j+1}$.
		- The oriented cycle $L$ of $G$ can then be represented by a vector in $C_1(G)$ shown below.
		  ((63ce33e3-5e63-42a9-94c0-7c1fc6682ef6))
		- Denote by $Z(G)$ the subspace of $C_1(G)$ spanned by the vectors $\vec{z_L}$ as $L$ runs over the set of cycles. $Z(G)$ is the cycle space of $G$.
		- `Fundamental cycle`: for any chord $e_i$ of a spanning tree $T$, there is one unique cycle $C$ oriented by $e_i$ that consists of $e_i$ and tree edges. We call this cycle the fundamental cycle belonging to $e_i$ (w.r.t $T$).
	- `Cut space` / `Cocycle space`
	  collapsed:: true
		- Let $P$ be a partition $V = V_1\cup V_2$
		- The set $E(V_1,V_2)$ denotes the edges in between. Such a set is called a `cut`.
		- A vector $\vec{u}_P$ in $C_1(G)$ called cut vector, or cocycle vector, is naturally associated with this partition $P$:
		  ((63cf9292-21d4-422e-865b-970bbfcd978a))
		- $U(G)$ denotes the subspace of $C_1(G)$ spanned by all the cut vector $\vec{u}_P$.
		- `Fundamental cut` / `fundamental cocycle`: By deleting an edge $e_i$ of a spanning tree $T$, we partition the vertex into two parts $V_1$ and $V_2$, with $V_1$ be the one containing the initial vertex of $e_i$.
		-
		-
		-
	- `Nullity`
		- The nullity of a graph is the nullity of its adjacency matrix. That is, the rank of the null space of the matrix.
		- The nullity of $G$ is equal to $\text{dim }Z(G)$.
	- `Rank`
		- The rank of a graph is the rank of its adjacency matrix.
		- It's equal to $\text{dim } U(G)$.
	- `Adjacency matrix`
	  collapsed:: true
		- Denoted by a $n\times n$ matrix $A=A(G)=(a_{ij})$ the adjacency matrix of a graph $G$.
		- ((63cfc04a-50fa-4a56-91de-5e8898b75931))
	- `Incidence matrix`
		- Denote by a $n\times m$ matrix $B=B(G)=(b_{ij})$ the incidence matrix of $G$.
		- ((63cfc0c8-fc13-4c68-a226-0d1997b18c24))
		-
		-
	- `Combinatorial Laplacian matrix` / `Kirchhoff matrix`
		- The combinatorial Laplacian matrix is $L \stackrel{def}{=} D-A$.
- Facts
	- The inner product space $C_1(G)$ is the orthogonal direct sum of the cycle space $Z(G)$ and the cut space $U(G)$. If G has $n$ vertices, $m$ edges and $k$ components, then
	  collapsed:: true
	  $$\text{dim} Z(G)=m-n+k\text{ and dim }U(G) = n - k$$
		- Firstly to prove that these two spaces are orthogonal.
		- Then use fundamental cycle and fundamental cut to prove that
		  $$\text{dim} Z(G)\geq m-n+1\text{ and dim }U(G) \geq n - 1$$
		  for any connected graph.
		- See ((63cfaf94-c652-4d7a-bff1-8e93c0a66744)) for proof.
		-
	- $BB^T = D - A$
	  collapsed:: true
		- where $D$ is a diagonal matrix with $D_{ii} = d(v_i)$.
		- The matrix $BB^T$ is the one with $(BB^T)_{ij}$ being
			- $d(v)$ if $i=j$
			- $1$ if $v_iv_j$ is an edge and $-1$ if $v_jv_i$ is an edge
			- $0$ otherwise
	- The kernel/null space of $B$ is exactly $Z(G)$, and thus $r(B) = n - k$.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Proof. Let the null space of $B$ be $N(B)$. It's easy to see that $Z(G)\subseteq N(B)$.
		- It remains to prove that any $\vec{y}\in N(B)$ can be decomposed to cycles. This can be done inductively.
	- $U(G) = \{ B^T\vec{x}\ |\ \vec{x}\in C_0(G) \}$, i.e. the image of $B^T$ is exactly the cut space.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Proof. Given any partition $T_1, T_2$, let $\vec{x}$ be the vector where $x_i=1$ if $v_i\in T_1$ and otherwise $x_i=0$.
- Historical Facts
	- It's Kirchhoff that first realized the applicability of matrix algebra to graph theory, exactly in connection with the electrical network problem. (quote from [here](((63d0e2d5-fed7-4c31-93e3-8a6695f44036))))
	-