- ((63d33f00-ac9a-43e3-b6ca-7b628fdbb585))
- ### Definitions
	- connectivity $\kappa(G)$
	  collapsed:: true
		- $k$-connected
			- $G$ is $k$-connected either
			  1. $G$ is $K_{k+1}$
			  2. To disconnect $G$, you need to remove **at least** $k$ vertices.
			- Note that to be $k$-connected, you need to have **more than** $k$ vertices.
		- The maximal value of $k$ for which $G$ is $k$-connected is denoted by $\kappa(G)$
	- edge-connectivity $\lambda(G)$
	  collapsed:: true
		- $k$-edge-connected
			- $G$ has at least two vertices
			- To disconnect $G$, you need to remove **at least** $k$ edges.
		- The maximal value of $k$ for which $G$ is $k$-edge-connected is denoted by $\lambda(G)$
	- block
	  collapsed:: true
		- ((63d3ab23-252a-4dc8-9690-f7db115d3de9))
	- $bc(G)$: block-cutvertex graph of $G$
	  collapsed:: true
		- Decompose $G$ into blocks $B_1, ..., B_p$
		  collapsed:: true
			- 1. $E(G) = \cup_1^p E(B_i)$
			- 2. for $i\neq j$, $E(B_i)\cap E(B_j)=\emptyset$
		- Let $bc(G)$ be the bipartite graph
		  collapsed:: true
			- vertices are $B_i$ and all the cutvertex of $G$.
			- each cutvertex of $G$ is joined to the blocks containing it.
		- Facts:
		  collapsed:: true
			- $bc(G)$ is a tree.
			- Each endvertex of $bc(G)$ is a block of $G$, called `endblock` of $G$.
			- A block is  an endblock iff it contains exactly one cutvertex.
			- Unless $G$ is $K_2$ or is $2$-connected, it has at least two endblocks.
		-
	-
- ### Basic facts
	- $\kappa(G)\leq \lambda(G)\leq \delta(G)$
	  collapsed:: true
		- Given that $G$ is nontrivial.
		- The right side is trivial.
		- The left side can be checked by:
		  collapsed:: true
			- If $G$ is a complete graph, they are equal.
			- Otherwise, given an edge cut $\{x_1y_1, ..., x_ky_k\}$
				- If $\{x_1, ..., x_k\}$ is a vertex cut, we are done.
				- Otherwise each vertex $x_i$ has degree at most $k$, and thus exactly $k$.
				  collapsed:: true
					- This is not obvious, but be checked by calculating the upper bound of their total degree.
					- In case of multigraph, this can be replaced by "has at most $k$ neighbours"
				- Thus removing neighbours of $x_1$, we are done.
	- Any two blocks have at most one vertex in common.
- Theorems
	- [[Menger's theorem]]
	- [[Hall's theorem]]
	  id:: 63d690a0-0f20-4df5-ae71-c5553d0ab96e
	- If every antichain in a (finite) partially ordered set $P$ has at most $m$ elements, then $P$ is the union of $m$ chains.
	  collapsed:: true
		- See ((63dbd00a-d1ec-4506-8258-f66c0a8f692b))
		- Insights
		  collapsed:: true
			- Given $m$ much larger than any possible antichain could be, we can still find $m$ chains that combine into $P$ by taking empty sets into account.
			- Given now a $P$ with its maximal antichain of size $m$.
			- Remove a longest chain $C$ from $P$, and in $P-C$ must one find an antichain of size $m$, and is maximal in also $P$.
			- The essence is then to use $S$ to literally construct $m$ chains for $P$.
			- Which, here, is achieved by playing induction on the upper and lower shadows and then combines them.
			- (again you allowed someone to play magic in front of you; and have to try many times to understand how XD)
			-