- Definitions
	- An ``electrical network`` is a directed multigraph, where the direction of an edge is just its orientation.
	- Each edge $e_i$ is assigned a real number $r_i$, called `resistance`. Edges are also called 
	   `resistors`.
	- Subject to `Ohm's law`: $w_i=\frac{p_i}{r_i}$
	  which states that, if there is a `potential difference` $p_i$ between endvertices of $e_i$, say $a_i$ and $b_i$, then an `electrical current` $w_i$ will flow from $a_i$ to $b_i$.
	  Note that $r_i^{-1}$ is defined as the `conductance`.
	- Subject to `Kirchhoff's laws`
	  collapsed:: true
		- Kirchhoff's potential law
		  id:: 63ca5c0d-bbbe-4ca7-a50f-6e3aff136dea
		  collapsed:: true
			- The potential differences round any cycle $x_1x_2\cdots x_k$ sum to zero:
			  $$p_{x_1x_2}+p_{x_2x_3}+\cdots +p_{x_{k-1}x_k}+p_{x_kx_1}=0$$
		- Kirchhoff's current law
		  id:: 63ca5c20-adf4-4c19-8475-0d212718ab1b
		  collapsed:: true
			- This law **postulates** that the total current outflow from any point is zero:
			  $$w_{ab}+w_{ac}+\cdots+w_{au}+w_{a\infty} = 0$$
			- where $w_{a\infty}$ denotes the current that leaves the network at $a$. (analogously, $w_{\infty a}$ the one entering the network at $a$)
		- Easy to see that ((63ca5c0d-bbbe-4ca7-a50f-6e3aff136dea)) is equivalent to state that we can assigned absolute potentials $V_a$ to each vertex, and the potential between vertices $a$, $b$ would be $p_{ab} = V_a - V_b$.
		- Note also that ((63ca5c20-adf4-4c19-8475-0d212718ab1b)) is an assumption, and cannot be deduced from other definitions.
	- In the most fundamental problems, current is allowed to enter the graph only at a single vertex $s$, the `source`, and leave only at another vertex $t$, the `sink`.
	- If the size of current entering the graph is $w$, and the potential difference between $s$ and $t$ is $p$, then by Ohm's law, $r = p/w$ is the *total resistance* of the network between $s$ and $t$.
- Basic facts
	- Principle of superposition
	  id:: 63ca71ef-8e00-4f61-8ac9-02520b57a8d1
	  collapsed:: true
		- Any combination of solutions is again a solution.
		- Note that `solution` is a concept in linear system, instead of simply meaning "a way of assigning current/potential".
	- Solution for multiple sources/sinks can be obtained by superposing flows belonging to one source and sink
		- Can be deduced from ((63ca71ef-8e00-4f61-8ac9-02520b57a8d1))
	- There is exactly one solution for a given electrical network
		- The uniqueness can be deduced from ((63ca71ef-8e00-4f61-8ac9-02520b57a8d1)).
		  It suffices to only prove the uniqueness of the solution in a basic $s$-$t$ electrical network, which is easy.
		- The proof of the existence of a solution is much more complex, and is constructive. See ((63cb9126-d516-4e19-9aab-1e6293c0ed07)) for details.
		- Some insights that might help understanding this proof
		  collapsed:: true
			- In a spanning tree, there is exactly one path from $s$ to $t$, with each edge given a size of current $1$.
			- On each spanning tree, there is but one explicit solution. Adding them together makes one explicit solution on original network.
			- Why spanning tree, not path: a solution on a path does not contain potential of vertices outside of the path.
	- Star-triangle transformation
		- ((63cb91e7-d010-44b1-a624-d9955cfe2889))
		- Assuming that no current is allowed to enter/leaving at $v$.
		- See ((63cb8ef7-b37e-4514-a8bf-3237d806e105))
	- If the conductances of edges are rational and a current of size $1$ goes through the network, then the current in each edge has rational value.
		- A corollary from the constructive proof of the existence of solution.
		- See ((63cb9126-d516-4e19-9aab-1e6293c0ed07))
	- If some wires are cut, the total resistance does not decrease; if shorted, the total resistance does not increase.
- On solving the electrical network
	-